Okay, now, this,
we're gonna get much more interesting here
in the world of TypeScript and types.
And I expect this'll be
a larger discussion of sorts.
So in this example, we're being asked
to look at the types of first and
second below, and
the compile error messages.
And we're being asked what does
this tell us about how string
with a lowercase s and
String with a capital S are different?
So let's look at this
code example carefully.
So we have a variable
declaration called first, and
we have the lowercase string,
and then and, and then number.
And then below that, we have second,
and then we have a similar type,
except we're using the capital
letter versions of these.
So you may have heard before you always
want to use this lowercase version of
string and number, and
these these primitive types.
And by the end of this discussion,
I think you will believe even more that
that is the best way to do things,
because stuff gets weird
if you use this variant.
So let's look at what happens here.
And by the way,
in these code examples, this is,
to some extent, VS Code in your browser.
So if you're following along on the
website, you can hover over these symbols,
and you can see the types right on
tooltips, just as if it's your editor.
So the type of first is never.
So who can tell me what never
means in the world of TypeScript?
What kinds of values will
make this variable happy?
>> No values.
>> No values, right?
So in terms of the set of things I
could pass to first to make it happy,
it is the empty set.
So we can see that the type of
first is never, meaning there is no
value that we could give to first that
would make it type check properly.
The only thing we could
give it is a never.
It's effectively, it's an impossibility.
For example, you could end up with a never
if you took a number, and you could say,
well, if it's greater than or
equal to zero, do this one thing.
And if it's less than zero,
do this other thing.
And then you follow it with one more else
block, a number that's neither zero,
nor greater than zero, nor less than zero.
What is that number?
What could that be?
And the answer is there is no number,
right?
That's a never.
That's what we mean by an empty set.
It's sort of we've crossed everything
off of the list of what this could be.
That's what that means.
So that's the type of first.
And you might expect, well,
the way we've defined second,
that type looks very similar.
I mean, it's just a capital letter.
Maybe String with a capital letter is just
sort of an alias for the lowercase string.
But if we look at that,
it turns out it's different.
And by the way,
if we think about why first is never,
somebody give me an example of something
that is both a string and a number.
It's hard to think about that, right?
Somebody write that in the chat.
Give me an example of something
that's both a string and a number.
It's really we're kind of at a loss.
That's why we end up with never.
But here, second seems to be looking for
exactly that, something that's both.
It's some hybrid string and number thing,
but at the same time, not never.
And we can see that our error message
is a little bit different here.
You can see we're attempting
to assign it to a string.
And we're getting an error
that's telling us wait a minute,
it has to be both a string and a number.
And yeah,
I'm okay with the string part, but
what you gave me is not
assignable to a number.
You're missing the number aspect
of what I need to be given.
And finally, here's another thing
that adds to the confusion.
This line down here,
if we use the string constructor, which,
this should look kind of strange to you.
We don't typically create
strings this way in JavaScript.
We get yet
another different error message.
And here we're saying all right,
String with a capital S is not
assignable to String & Number.
And up here,
you can see we had a lowercase s.
So it seems like it's being regarded
as a different type of sorts.
And then this final line down here,
now we get deeper information about how,
look, it's not just that this lowercase
string is not assignable to type number.
Now, we're being told we're missing
some properties, and we might
recognize that these are properties
that one might find on numbers, right?
toFixed, toFixed is what you would
use to get the correct number of
significant digits after a decimal point.
If you're printing out dollars and
cents, you might use toFixed.
So seems like these are different.
So in terms of what this might tell
you about how you should build
your mental model, we can see that
when we use lowercase string and
lowercase number,
we end up with this never thing.
But when we use these uppercase
versions of these types,
we see that we don't get a never.
We get what appears to be
the combination of the two interfaces
that contain the methods on string,
the methods on number.
So something is different here.
And it has to kind of do with
what is different about these
two types about string
versus interface string?
So building on this example, again,
we have first and we have second.
What we're gonna do is try to
create this impossible thing,
this impossible thing that's
both a string and a number.
So here you can see if we just try to
create a new type called Foo that is
both a string and a number,
it's extending to other interfaces,
we get error messages telling us that
there is some kind of collision here.
toString, valueOf, there's something
different about these in string and
a number.
And when we try to merge them together,
something goes wrong.
But we can kinda collaborate together by
explicitly specifying these in this way.
So we can create this thing called bar,
that it extends both the string and
number interfaces.
And we can even create
a value of that type.
So [LAUGH] I'm using the spread operator
to get both everything that's on number,
and everything that's on string.
And then I have to explicitly
do one little dirty cast here,
so that I get a never type
as the return of the value.
And here we go,
we can actually complete an assignment.
And this is our string and
number hybrid, but
you see it still doesn't make
this first variable happy.
So what this should tell you about
the mental model you should form here is,
number one,
use the lowercase flavors of these types.
They are the sort of atomic
lowest level things.
You see, if we try to hover over string
here, we don't really get a tooltip.
It's one of the most fundamental
building blocks of the type system here.
Use these, they are fundamentally
different than these,
because these are the methods.
This is the interface that describes
what can be done with the string.
But their richness will also
introduce some complexity,
and you don't end up with the types
that you might think that you would get.
So it may seem like a benign little,
like a best practice.
We don't really understand why we do it
one way versus the other, but this can
result in some serious ramifications to
your codebase if you use the wrong one.
So we can create this thing that's
both a string and a number, but
we have to do it in sort of a hacky way.
And this is a good reason to stay
away from the interfaces and
stick to these, string and number.